---
layout: post
title:  "April 2021 Exercise Report"
date:   2021-05-03
excerpt: "Spring workouts"
tag: [Life]
comments: false
---
# April exercise report
Another account of my activities in the last month, [March report here too](https://colinpattinson.github.io/exercise-2021-3/). It’s looking like more progress this month. Towards what? That even I don’t know yet. 

## Context
I fixed my watch! It took far too many emails but credit to everyone’s favourite [French consumer electronics company](https://www.withings.com/uk/en/), I now have a replacement watch that both tells the time and tracks activities again.

### Activities 
This is what I did…

#### What activities?
This month included:

<iframe title="Count of activities in April" aria-label="Bar Chart" id="datawrapper-chart-v6ue7" src="https://datawrapper.dwcdn.net/v6ue7/1/" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" style="width: 0; min-width: 100% !important; border: none;" height="277"></iframe><script type="text/javascript">!function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();
</script>

38 activities in 30 days. 4 more than last month and within 1 day less. 

Last month I [blabbered on about my new found Tennis playing](https://twitter.com/ColinPattinson/status/1376984134174789633?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1376984134174789633%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fcolinpattinson.github.io%2Fexercise-2021-3%2F). A couple of extra sessions occurred this month. 

I am considering lessons. That could be in the pipeline. Watch this space.

#### Totals & averages
Exercising:
- total miles: 245.68 miles 
- an preposterous increase. From a low in Feb of 51.64 miles to nearly increase x5 fold. Almost certainly it’s all to do with increased amount of cycling (mixed with having places to go as lockdown eases!)
- no HIIT this month. Hmmm note to self, do a HIIT class.
- in 2021 I have now racked up 481.89 miles. 2000 miles would be pretty cool to hit this year.

Time:
- total time taken: 40.19 hours. An increase by nearly 14 hours.
- lots of long walks and long runs this month
- average exercise time: 63.45 minutes. Broke the hour mark for the first time.

#### What else?
Facts and figures:
- longest distance was 20.05 mile cycle ride. Included going through the Greenwich tunnel and seeing some parts of London I’ve never cycled through before.
- lowest distance was 2.3 mile walk 
- fastest run was 8.34 minutes per mile. Down from last month, Not sure I’m getting slower, more that I’ve been generally doing longer distances when running.

## Perspective
Seeing people sitting in bars, enjoying the company of others in the sunshine has been wonderful. Some visits myself and some restaurant trips have been great. Still spending plenty of times in parks though.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Sat on a park bench, doodling away in the ☀️. Drawing pants but soul a tiny bit more calm for doing it. <a href="https://t.co/nMZ6YCYdaL">pic.twitter.com/nMZ6YCYdaL</a></p>&mdash; Colin Pattinson (@ColinPattinson) <a href="https://twitter.com/ColinPattinson/status/1378692810187100163?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 4, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>  

## What next?
No half marathon organised yet but feels on the cards soon! I did consider some lido trips this month. I’m not an amazing swimmer but feels like something great to get into.
