---
layout: post
title:  "May 2021 Exercise Report"
date:   2021-06-15
excerpt: "Fitness endeavours"
tag: [Life]
comments: false
---
# May exercise report
5th episode of these, [April report here too](https://colinpattinson.github.io/exercise-2021-4/). Not quite hitting the highs of last month but some celebrations this month and the beginnings of a short break away.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Cycled to Loch Ness. Extremely happy with this choice. <a href="https://t.co/WFUleqoUYF">pic.twitter.com/WFUleqoUYF</a></p>&mdash; Colin Pattinson (@ColinPattinson) <a href="https://twitter.com/ColinPattinson/status/1399346161320927233?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">May 31, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script> 

## Context
No tennis this month. Which is not ideal but plenty of cycling. Which included the absolute joy of being in Scotland, renting a bike and then off to Loch Ness. 

### Activities 
This is what I did…

#### What activities?
This month included:

<iframe title="Count of activities" aria-label="Bar Chart" id="datawrapper-chart-R5LJH" src="https://datawrapper.dwcdn.net/R5LJH/1/" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" style="width: 0; min-width: 100% !important; border: none;" height="238"></iframe><script type="text/javascript">!function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(e){if(void 0!==e.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.querySelectorAll("iframe");for(var a in e.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var r=0;r<t.length;r++){if(t[r].contentWindow===e.source)t[r].style.height=e.data["datawrapper-height"][a]+"px"}}}))}();
</script>

38 activities in 31 days. Consistent with last month but had 1 extra day. 

#### Totals & averages
Exercising:
- total miles: 241.72 miles 
- down a little from last month, little under 4 miles off. 
- no HIIT in May. Although as I write this, I know a slice of HIIT in June.
- in 2021 I have now racked up 710 miles. Not tiny. 

Time:
- total time taken: 34.51. Less than last months 40.19 hours. 
- average exercise time: 54.49 minutes. Down from 63.45 minutes. Not breaking the hour mark this time but still improved from March low of 46 minutes.

#### What else?
Facts and figures:
- longest distance was a 21.76 mile cycle ride. Loch Ness adventure!
- lowest distance was a 2.62 mile walk 
- fastest run was a couple of 8.07 minutes per mile efforts. Might think about cracking this 8 minute mile mark again just as a mini challenge.

## Perspective
A first trip outside of London since Jan was quite wonderful. A long train journey up to Inverness and some quality family time was a good tonic. It’s good to get out of the city to see the countryside again. 

## What next?
I’m writing this mid-way through June. So I know half of what I’ve done already (spoiler a nice hike!). Tennis would be great to get back into - booking courts at short notice not always super simple!
