---
layout: post
title:  "The Finale: December 2021 Exercise Report"
date:   2022-01-05
excerpt: "Last of 12 months of reporting"
tag: [Life]
comments: false
---
# December exercise report
The finale. It’s here. 11 of these exist, last of them was [me running around Hamburg](https://colinpattinson.github.io/exercise-2021-11/). This one will be a bit different. December stats plus a little reflection on the whole experience. 

So let's get going. December I was working from Tenerife, dodging COVID & traveling North for the festive period. This means that I got to swim in seas, cycle up volcanoes and run through forests. Not a terrible collection. Even got a booster jab while I was at it.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Snowbird. <a href="https://t.co/bRkUUKibj9">pic.twitter.com/bRkUUKibj9</a></p>&mdash; Colin Pattinson (@ColinPattinson) <a href="https://twitter.com/ColinPattinson/status/1470832283800199172?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 14, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script> 

## Activities
A nice mix of swimming, running and yoga. Likely the working trip to the Canary Islands aided this. 

### What activities?
This month included:

<iframe title="December count of activities" aria-label="Bar Chart" id="datawrapper-chart-OrYY8" src="https://datawrapper.dwcdn.net/OrYY8/1/" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" style="width: 0; min-width: 100% !important; border: none;" height="314"></iframe><script type="text/javascript">!function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(e){if(void 0!==e.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.querySelectorAll("iframe");for(var a in e.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var r=0;r<t.length;r++){if(t[r].contentWindow===e.source)t[r].style.height=e.data["datawrapper-height"][a]+"px"}}}))}();
</script>

36 total activities in 31 days. 10 extra activities this month. Finished with quite the bang.

#### Totals & averages
Exercising:
- total miles: only 88.46 miles this month. Down a lot from 151.27 miles of November but a fair amount of swimming and yoga which doesn’t amass miles. Back in January 2021 I only did 65.77 miles for reference
- in 2021 I racked up 1750.3 miles 
- I dreamed of 1750 miles. I did 1750.3 miles. The last activity to tip me over the balance was a walk in the Scottish North with my aunty and two dogs on New Years Eve. Wonderful!

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">As of a few hours ago, hit my target of 1750 total miles of exercise this year 🎉 time to grab a drink and wave goodbye to 2021 🍾 <a href="https://t.co/hO2nEKTYgh">pic.twitter.com/hO2nEKTYgh</a></p>&mdash; Colin Pattinson (@ColinPattinson) <a href="https://twitter.com/ColinPattinson/status/1476959495209291776?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 31, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script> 

Time:
- total time taken: 21.98 hours. On the lower end of things. Again, less long runs this month more shorter distanced runs, swimming or sub 30min yoga sessions.
- average exercise time: 36.63 minutes, unsurprisingly low. 

#### What else?
Facts and figures:
- longest distance was a 8.18 mile run
- lowest distance was a 2.56 mile walk 
- fastest run was at the 8 mins 16 secs per mile mark. I can tell you that running on sand does not make for fast times

# End Of Year Review
As we know I got just a smidgen over 1750 miles. Which was a good feeling. What else:
- Total time taken was 344.48 total hours over 2021. Which is nearly equivalent to watching Cool Runnings 250 times in a row.
- Average exercise time over the year was 53.55 minutes. So roughly an episode of an HBO show each time I exercised.
- Average exercise distance was 6.16 miles. Which is roughly the distance from Green Park to Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park.  

## Perspective
I sort of stumbled into this goal, [as you can read about](https://colinpattinson.github.io/exercise-2021-1/) from all the way back in January. I think in retrospect the whole thing stemmed from a place of defiance. I needed something to commit to and this challenge found me. The dedication to a cause which forced me to be very active was really wonderfully therapeutic and distracting. Recommended!

As I sit here in 2022, I’ll miss my bulging spreadsheet with 392 rows. Adieu to you and the routine of filling you out. Also bon voyage to writing these monthly updates! 
Left with fond memories of running about places and enjoyed needing to make up the last 10 miles on New Year’s Eve with doing a long run through some battered woods ([thanks Storm Arwen](https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/about-us/press-office/news/weather-and-climate/2021/storm-arwen-named)) then a short final hike around with dogs. A very climactic and picturesque ending to a full year of exercises.

## What next?
I’m doing yoga. **Every. Single. Day.**

No monthly blog posts. Just going to do the yoga. I might make a spreadsheet one day but not got one yet. I am 5 days in and can report the yoga is going well. Only 360 more sessions to go!
